Init System

To run and manage your mongod process, you will be using your operating system's built-in init system. Recent versions of Linux tend to use systemd (which uses the systemctl command), while older versions of Linux tend to use System V init (which uses the service command).

If you are unsure which init system your platform uses, run the following command:

ps --no-headers -o comm 1

Then select the appropriate tab below based on the result:

systemd - select the systemd (systemctl) tab below.

---
looks like you cxan use systemd if newer else service

---
systemd example

Start MongoDB.
You can start the mongod process by issuing the following command:

sudo systemctl start mongod

If you receive an error similar to the following when starting mongod:

Failed to start mongod.service: Unit mongod.service not found.

Run the following command first:

sudo systemctl daemon-reload

Then run the start command above again.

2
Verify that MongoDB has started successfully.
sudo systemctl status mongod

You can optionally ensure that MongoDB will start following a system reboot by issuing the following command:

sudo systemctl enable mongod

3
Stop MongoDB.
As needed, you can stop the mongod process by issuing the following command:

sudo systemctl stop mongod

4
Restart MongoDB.
You can restart the mongod process by issuing the following command:

sudo systemctl restart mongod

You can follow the state of the process for errors or important messages by watching the output in the /var/log/mongodb/mongod.log file.

5
Begin using MongoDB.
Start a mongosh session on the same host machine as the mongod. You can run mongosh without any command-line options to connect to a mongod that is running on your localhost with default port 27017.

mongosh


---- service example

Start MongoDB.
Issue the following command to start mongod:

sudo service mongod start

2
Verify that MongoDB has started successfully
Verify that the mongod process has started successfully:

sudo service mongod status

You can also check the log file for the current status of the mongod process, located at: /var/log/mongodb/mongod.log by default. A running mongod instance will indicate that it is ready for connections with the following line:

[initandlisten] waiting for connections on port 27017

3
Stop MongoDB.
As needed, you can stop the mongod process by issuing the following command:

sudo service mongod stop

4
Restart MongoDB.
Issue the following command to restart mongod:

sudo service mongod restart

5
Begin using MongoDB.
Start a mongosh session on the same host machine as the mongod. You can run mongosh without any command-line options to connect to a mongod that is running on your localhost with default port 27017.

mongosh

For more information on connecting using mongosh, such as to connect to a mongod instance running on a different host and/or port, see the mongosh documentation.

To help you start using MongoDB, MongoDB provides Getting Started Guides in various driver editions. For the driver documentation, see Start Developing with MongoDB.